---
title: The Base Two Handbook
author: csteinert
date: "2018-03-13T04:00:00.000Z"
path: "/2018/03/13/the-base-two-handbook"
---

We began writing the Base Two Handbook on August 26th, 2016. It took about a year
and a half to get it to "completion," and now we're ready to share it with the
world! You can [check out the Base Two Handbook here](https://github.com/b2io/handbook).
Read on to learn more about our purpose and process.

## Impetus

As we began what would be considered a "hiring spree" for Base Two (we hired
**four** people in 2016!), it became apparent that we were throwing new hires
squarely into the deep end. Many of our internal processes and cultural
expectations were scattered around in various Google Drive documents, if they
were written down at all. This was, obviously, not ideal.

The original goal for the Handbook was to provide a new employee with helpful
information for their first days and weeks with Base Two. But it has also proven
to be helpful to the company overall. It has prompted us to consider our internal
policies and given us a structured process in which to discuss changes. We
hope that by publishing publicly it will also serve as an ambassador for our
unique organization.

### Inspiration

In setting out to create our Handbook, one of the first things we did was to
research what other companies were doing. Of all the examples we came across,
the "[Handbook for New Employees](http://media.steampowered.com/apps/valve/Valve_Handbook_LowRes.pdf)"
(PDF) by [Valve](http://www.valvesoftware.com/) resonated with us the most. We appreciate their conversational
tone, and we **really** like their glossary, which is why you'll see one in our
Handbook as well. Perhaps someday we'll also have cool illustrations.

## Method

### Cultural

Writing can be daunting on its own, writing what essentially represents
company policy doubly so. In order to keep this project on our team's radar we
scheduled weekly, 1-hour Handbook Work Sessions. These voluntary meetings were
meant mostly as encouragement-via-calendar-reminder to continue on in-process
work and review work that had been submitted for review. We also added the
Handbook as a topic of conversation in our Weekly Meetings.

### Technological

We started by creating a rough outline of the Handbook sections. This happened
over a couple-hour session of brainstorming in a shared Google Doc. We then
separated each section into its own Markdown file, all of which were eventually
added to a private repository in GitHub.

We decided to host our Handbook on GitHub because Base Two is currently
comprised entirely of developers who are all comfortable and familiar with using
GitHub to contribute to and collaborate on projects. It was important to us that
every member of the team felt comfortable with the process, since we wanted the
Handbook to be an ever-evolving and team-built document.

The Issues feature that is built into GitHub was very helpful for this project.
We used the it to create small tasks that team members could claim and focus on.
Once each section of the Handbook was at least initialized, we added issues for
things like typos, broken links, updated policies. This process ensured that
nothing was forgotten and also allowed us suggest improvements without feeling
pressured to get them done immediately.

Any time an issue was completed, it went through GitHub's Pull Request process
before the changes were merged into the Handbook. At this stage, any team member
could review the proposed additions and request changes.

## Conclusion

Before we uploaded the Handbook into a public GitHub repository (where anyone,
even folks outside of our company, can see it) we switched out all of the links
to our internal documentation with links that route to Base Two's Slack team
and then go to the documents. This is to safeguard our internal stuff while
still providing the resources to folks who are part of our organization.

In the switch from the private to public repository, we removed the Git history.
So please note that while it **looks** like I (Caitlin) wrote the whole thing
myself, I had a lot of help from every member of the team.

As our Handbook is a living document, it will change and evolve over time. Now
that it's public, you'll be able to see our process as it happens. We welcome
conversation around this project, and hope you enjoy checking it out!
