---
layout: post
title: The Base Two Handbook
tags: [handbook, company policy, code of conduct]
author: csteinert
comments: true
---

The Base Two Handbook was born on August 26th, 2016. It took another year
and a half to get it to "completion," and now we're ready to share it with the
world.

## Impetus

As we began what would be considered a "hiring spree" for Base Two (we hired 4
people in 2016), it became apparent that we were throwing
new hires squarely into the deep end. Many of our internal processes and
cultural expectations were scattered around in various Google Drive documents,
if they were written down at all.


## Method

### Cultural

Writing can be daunting on its own, writing what essentially represents
company policy doubly so. In order to keep this project on our team's radar, we
scheduled weekly, 1-hour Handbook Work Sessions. These were entirely voluntary,
and were meant mostly as encouragement-via-calendar-reminder to continue on work
that was in process and review work that had been submitted for review. We also
added the Handbook as a topic of conversation in our Weekly Meetings.

### Technological

We decided to host our Handbook on GitHub, initially in a private repository.
As developers, we're accustomed to using GitHub




- Who
  - base two team
- What
  - codified culture
- where
  - github because we're developers
- when
  - this took a year and a half
  - weekly work sessions, when folks had time
- why
  - keep ourselves honest
  - be able to have structured conversations about company policy
  - as a handout for potential hires (we're not a normal company)
  - a bit of an advertisement
  - reinit the repo to hide our sensitive links, but all updates will be public
